.TH "tspreed" 1 "2020-02-21" "tspreed"

.SH NAME
tspreed \- shell RSVP speed reader with Spritz-like functionality

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tspreed
[\fB\-lqifb\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIwpm\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR \fInum\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIvalue\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIcolor\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtspreed\fR is a shell RSVP speed reader with Spritz-like functionality. It reads plain text from stdin and presents it one word at time.

If tspreed is terminated before the presentation has finished, the progress of the presentation is passed to stdout.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -w \fIwpm\fR
Speed words are presented at in words per minute. Required to be set. Minimum value of \fI1\fR.
.TP
.B -n \fInum\fR 
Start presenting from the nth word. Minimum value of \fI1\fR.
.TP
.B -l
Vary the speed words are presented at based on their length.
.TP
.B -q
Do not pass presentation progress to stdout if tspreed is terminated before the presentation has finished.
.TP
.B -i
Display progress information during the presentation.
.TP
.B -f
Highlight the focus letter (also known as the pivot or optimal recognition point) of the word being presented.
.TP
.B -p \fIvalue\fR
Display pointers of a given style pointing towards the focus letter. Only takes effect if focus letter highlighting is enabled. Values: \fInone\fR, \fIline\fR, \fIpoint\fR.
.TP
.B -b
Display the focus letter in bold. Only takes effect if focus letter highlighting is enabled.
.TP
.B -c \fIcolor\fR
Display the focus letter in a given color. Only takes effect if focus letter highlighting is enabled. Values are standard 8-bit ANSI color values, ranging from \fI0\fR to \fI7\fR.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The values provided in the command options take precidence over the values of the user's config file, which takes precidence over the values of the system-wide config file.
.TP
.B wpm=\fIwpm\fR
Equivalent to \fB-w\fR option.
.TP
.B numstart=\fInum\fR
Equivalent to \fB-n\fR option.
.TP
.B lengthvary=\fIbool\fR
Equivalent to \fB-l\fR option.
.TP
.B quietexit=\fIbool\fR
Equivalent to \fB-q\fR option.
.TP
.B proginfo=\fIbool\fR
Equivalent to \fB-i\fR option.
.TP
.B focus=\fIbool\fR
Equivalent to \fB-f\fR option.
.TP
.B focuspointer=\fItype\fR
Equivalent to \fB-p\fR option.
.TP
.B focusbold=\fIbool\fR
Equivalent to \fB-b\fR option.
.TP
.B focuscolor=\fIvalue\fR
Equivalent to \fB-c\fR option.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion of presentation.
.TP
.B 1
Failure during initiation of presentaton.
.TP
.B 2
Presentation terminated before completion.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B \fI/etc/tspreed/tspreed.rc\fR
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
.B \fI~/.config/tspreed/tspreed.rc\fR
User-specific configuration file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.P
$ \fBtspreed < textfile\fR
.P
$ \fBpdftotext document.pdf - | tspreed -w 300 -n 120 -ifb -p line -c 1\fR

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Bugs and issues can be reported on GitHub or GitLab.

https://github.com/n-ivkovic/tspreed/issues

https://gitlab.com/n-ivkovic/tspreed/issues

.SH AUTHORS
Nicholas Ivkovic <nivkovic@tuta.io>.
